# ROGONG-IDS
# A ROBUST GRADIENT BOOSTING MODEL BASED ON SMOTE AND NEAR MISS METHODS FOR INTRUSION DETECTION IN IMBALANCED DATA SETS

The threat of network intrusion has become much more severe due to the increasing network flow. Therefore, network intrusion detection is one of the most concerned research areas in the network security domain. As the demand for cybersecurity assurance increases, the requirement for intrusion detection systems (IDS) to meet current threats is also growing. However, network-based IDS have several shortcomings due to the structure of the systems, nature of the network data, and uncertainty related to future data. The imbalanced class problem is also crucial since it has a significant neg- ative effect on classification performance. Although high performance has been achieved in deep learning-based methodologies in recent years, machine learning techniques may also provide high performance in network intru- sion detection. This study suggests a new intrusion detection system called ROGONG-IDS (Robust Gradient Boosting intrusion detection system), with has a unique 2 stage resampling model to solve the imbalanced class prob- lem that produces high accuracy on the UNSW-NB15 dataset using ma- chine learning techniques. ROGONG-IDS is based on gradient boosting. The system uses Synthetic Minority Over-Sampling Technique (SMOTE) and NearMiss-1 methods to handle imbalanced class problem. The perfor- mance of the proposed model on multi-class classification has been verified in the UNSW-NB15 dataset. It reached the highest attack detection rate and F 1 score in the literature with a 97,30% detection rate and 97,65% F 1 score. ROGONG-IDS provides a robust, efficient intrusion detection system for the UNSW-NB15 dataset, dramatically imbalanced class distribution. In addition, the proposed methodology outperforms state-of-the-art and IDS methods.
